>> Bianca Gandolfo: Let's
talk about Reverend Green.
And also higher order functions and
callbacks,
which we've been doing
some work with already.
So you are already pretty experienced
with what it's like to use higher order
functions and callbacks.
Maybe we weren't really calling
them higher order functions.
But higher order functions in JavaScript,
is what enables us to do these
functional programming techniques.
Because a function in JavaScript is data.
And that's not true in other languages,
or it's not true in all languages,
that functions can be data.
And when I mean a function is data,
what I mean to say is that we
can pass functions around.
We can return them without invoking
them and things like that.
Just like you would an object, or say,
some primitive value, like a 0 or a true.
So really, higher-order functions and
callbacks are the core concept of
functional programming.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's
very powerful too, so
let's get going with it.
A higher order function can
take a function as an input.
For example, this addEventListener,
have you guys used addEventListener,
right?
We're taking this function as an input.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
and we can return a function,
as we saw before, as an output,
and here we are returning a function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, so
callbacks are just functions
that we pass to functions,
and we're going to just kind
of experiment with this.
We're going to run this, like we've
been running our code so far as a group,
who wants to go first?
>> Ben: Got
it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right, thanks,
Ben.
>> Ben: Okay, we're declaring a const,
if else, and
that's going to be using arrow notation.
It's going to be a function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Ben: Which is going to take in three
arguments, condition is true, is false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep.
>> Ben: Or parameters,
excuse me.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Absolutely, so
we're declaring our function here,
we're saving it to our const,
we're creating a constant variable, okay?
And then, who's next?
Dan, you want to go next?
>> Dan: Booking that
function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
we call it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And we pass true.
A couple anonymous functions.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then, Ryan, what does it do when we
enter into the body of the function?
>> Ryan: So, it looks like a ternary.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
>> Ryan: So it's asking if that condition,
which is true, is true.
And if it is true, which it is,
it returns as false, so
it returns as false.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: If it's true,
then you do this, otherwise, you do that.
>> Ryan: Yes.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: But yeah.
>> Unidentifed Male Student: Is that
a question mark?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So the question mark,
this is a ternary operator,
which is kind of a Java adopted thing,
it's shorthand for if else.
So it says, if condition is true, so
if this is true, then do that,
otherwise do this.
That's what that means,
it's just a short hand.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What's
that?
>> Unidentifed Male Student: I just
haven't seen it before.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
no worries.
>> Unidentifed Male Student: So it does,
it's true?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, so
in this case we're passing true.
True is true, is true, and
then we log true.
>> Unidentifed Male Student: You returned
the console.log.
Did something wonky happen there or
would it just execute the log?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
it'll just execute.
It'll return whatever the log returns,
which is undefined.
>> Unidentifed Male Student: Okay,
there you go.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this would be
a kind of functional style if else.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: All right,
so, I forgot.
>> Unidentifed Male Student: Does it
return the whole function there?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
in this case it's going to
return the whole function,
why?
>> Unidentifed Male Student: Because
the entire function is being
passed as the second argument.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
And is console.log actually happening?
No, why not?
>> Unidentified Female Student: It wasn't
invoked.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It was not invoked.
So we'd need to do a little
something like this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: To invoke it, and
now it's going to log.
Sometimes I trick even myself,
I forget what my tricks are.
So here we are,
I just put them in a variable now so
that we can pass them that way,
and we're calling it.
Okay, so we are passing a function and
we are calling that function
just the same as you would call log true,
here, right, it's the same.
Except that,
it's just the parameter name gives it
another name to reference it by,
that's all.
This can be confusing for
people sometimes.